Hello, John.
You are emerging
from deep hibernation.
You are aboard the spacecraft
Odyssey-1, bound for Titan.
Please be careful.
The drugs used
to induce hibernation
can produce mild side-effects,
including confusion, nausea,
dizziness and disorientation.
You are nine months, one day
and 18 hours
into your mission.
You're awake! Good.
Shit, shower, shave,
come on, shake a leg!
Initiate
manual operating system.
Nash!
How are we on
artificial gravity?
All spun on 1.01 G's.
Thrusters spent 2%
less fuel than needed.
Excellent!
John, we have an incoming
video message from Ground.
Will you tee it up
for us, please?
Yes, sir.
Good morning Odyssey-1!
Sam Napier here
from Houston, Texas.
As I speak,
it's Thursday, 23 December,
ten o'clock in the morning
Central Standard Time.
May I be the first
to wish you happy holidays.
Now, we've reviewed
Odyssey's data,
and everything looks
five by five our end,
so this message will be brief.
We'd like you to run some
routine equipment checks
and then back to sleep.
Oh, yes, I need
to stress the importance
of doing your
psych evaluation.
This is the most
effective way we have
to monitor
your cognitive status.
Two more cycles
before Jupiter-orbit,
and then the small matter
of gravitational slingshot,
which will be upon us
before we know it.
This is Sam Napier
at Mission Control.
Over and out.
Was that okay?
Let's get this done.
Let's see here.
Oxygen level, okay.
H2O, solid.
All good.
How long
have you been gone, John?
Nine months, one day.
Do you dream about space?
How many hibernation cycles
have there been?
Three.
You have been gone
a long time, John.
What is the thing
you miss most about home?
Fresh air!
Hello?
Evaluation complete.
Hey! Once you're done,
Captain wants you
to check the radios.
I can't remember
her last name.
- Whose last name?
- Zoe.
You know, the first couple
of hours are the worst.
Anastasis makes me feel like
my head is floating
off my shoulders.
Hey!
Don't worry about it.
It's her last name.
- You'd better...
- Check the radios.
John?
Let me introduce you
to Zoe Morgan.
- Hi.
Zoe is on our ATS team.
John's on our astronaut corps.
Ah. Are you a candidate?
- For Titan?
- Yeah.
100%, yeah.
Maybe you can put in
a good word for me.
That was a joke. I'm kidding.
You know,
actually it's a funny story
how John and I met.
I was on
a tandem recumbent bicycle.
I cycle into work every day.
Anyway,
my bike had a puncture,
so I was on the tandem,
I was going up the--
Have you ever ridden
on a tandem?
- Me? No.
- It's not as easy as it looks.
Let me get you a drink,
I'll tell you about it.
Hey, John,
would you like something?
Morgan.
Zoe Morgan.
Houston, this is Odyssey-1,
John speaking.
Happy holidays
to everyone down there.
Uh, we had a nice dehydrated
lentil stew for lunch,
which was the closest thing we
could get to a holiday meal.
And in lieu of beer,
we washed it down
with some delicious
recycled urine-water.
The waste-water recycling
system is working very well.
We hope!
- Yeah, we hope...
-Mmm-hmm.
We put Odyssey
through her paces.
Everything seems clean
and velocity is on track.
It's hard to believe
it's been nine months already.
At this rate, we should be
in the Saturnian System
in the blink of an eye.
Um...
So we're going to turn in,
and we'll speak to you again
in another 90 days.
Over and out.
Hello, John.
In a few seconds, you will be
entering deep hibernation.
Relax your body and begin
to focus on your breathing.
I really didn't
want it to be you.
You will be asleep in five...
four...
three...
two...
You know when this thing's
supposed to start?
I gotta take a leak.
Can everybody
take a seat?
Excuse me.
Is anybody sitting here?
Is this seat taken?
Uh, no.
Okay.
- Thank you.
- Thanks.
It's John, right?
Yes.
Yeah.
- Zoe.
- Morgan.
- Yes, I remember.
- Yeah.
- Very exciting.
- Yes.
Over a billion
miles away lies a world
that most resembles Earth
before life emerged.
Titan.
The largest of
Saturn's 82 moons,
and the only known world
in our galaxy,
other than Earth that
has liquid on its surface.
But Titan's rivers and lakes
are not composed of water...
but methane.
A hydrocarbon
and potent greenhouse gas.
But in order to reach
this distant moon,
we'll need some help
from an unlikely source,
Jupiter.
Jupiter orbits the Sun
at approximately
29,000 miles per hour.
I've seen this before.
We'll borrow a small chunk
of Jupiter's orbital velocity,
for gravity assist...
or a "slingshot",
resulting in
a tremendous speed boost.
The slingshot is
a breathtaking display
of orbital mechanics
and our ticket to Titan.
Early technology work
and concept design
started nearly a decade ago.
This cutting-edge spacecraft
wouldn't exist
without the ingenuity
and painstaking work of
a dedicated team of engineers.
The Titan mission has
far-reaching implications
not just a man's
exploration of the cosmos,
but the life on planet Earth.
Climate change remains
the primary threat
to mankind's
long-term survival.
Tapping into Titan's
abundant supply of methane
will create countless sources
of clean energy for Earth.
The Titan mission
is part of a greater journey
to save our planet.
For our children
and our children's children.
But first,
we have to get there.
Hello, John.
You're emerging
from deep hibernation.
You're aboard for spacecraft
Odyssey-1, bound for Titan.
Please be careful.
The drugs used
to induce hibernation
can produce mild side-effects,
including confusion, nausea,
dizziness and disorientation.
You are one year and
five days into your mission.
You have reached ten miles.
Congratulations.
Resuming exercise.
John.
Warning!
Warning! Warning!
John.
Johnny boy!
How are you feeling?
What happened?
You got bumped
on the head pretty good.
I mean
what happened to the ship?
That's what
we're trying to figure out.
You were the only one
awake when it happened.
I was standing
right about here
when I heard the impact,
and then the panel falls.
Hits me in the head.
Holy shit!
Oh, my God.
Wow.
John.
You all right up there?
I'm reviewing
the exterior video feeds
from the last three hours,
I don't see anything.
It's just empty space.
What about life-support power?
Critical systems.
Everything's coming up strong.
Thrusters, navigation,
artificial gravity...
It's like nothing happened.
- Have we heard from Ground?
- No, I'll check comms.
X-band is normal.
Recycling the power.
Up again. Self-test.
That's us transmitting
to ourselves,
so the system is working.
I'm gonna go
reexamine the damage.
You two keep working here.
John, record a message
for Ground.
- Tell them the situation.
-Yes, sir.
Houston, this is Odyssey-1.
John speaking.
We have a situation.
At some point
in the last three hours,
the aircraft was struck
by an object.
We're not exactly sure what,
but it dinged up the side
of the ship pretty good.
However, we've run
a complete diagnostics,
and there appears
to be no damage.
Thanks so much.
Hi.
Hey!
What are you doing?
Eh, just killing time.
Before the simulator training.
- Playing this dumb game.
- Yeah? What game?
Crypt Junkie.
What level?
The Vatican City.
I'm stuck.
Seriously?
You can do a flat spin
maneuver in an F-14 Tomcat,
but you can't make that...
that ledge?
- That is the situation, yes.
- May I?
Sure.
It's just...
Level cleared.
My nephew taught me.
He's nine.
No way!
Oh! You need more XP points
before you can...
I've got plenty of XP.
I'm fine thanks,
I got a lot of XP.
You could buy some
night-vision goggles.
I don't need any goggles,
I've been to Pontiff's.
I was still doing my PhD
when I started working here,
and my sister jokes that
it's my longest relationship.
But I wouldn't trade
this time for the world.
And everyday I wake up and
I'm excited and I'm inspired.
It's the most important job
you'll ever have.
- Mmm-hmm.
- Yeah.
Anyway, what about you?
If you are chosen,
won't you miss your life here?
Friends and family?
No.
I've always been a loner.
Only child syndrome.
Okay!
My father died when I was 11,
and my mother eventually
moved away to Maine
and we don't talk that much.
- I'm sorry.
- It's okay.
What do you think
are your chances?
Pretty good.
I mean, I graduated top
of my class in the Air Force,
I got an accelerated degree
in aeronautics,
and I never had anything
less than a perfect score
in any physical or psych exam.
And by the time
I set foot on Titan,
I'll be 39 years old,
which is the exact same age
Neil Armstrong was
when he set foot on the Moon.
Come on.
Tell me I'm not the guy.
Why do I think you had
that answer prepared?
'Cause I used it
in all my interviews.
Just to be clear,
we have nothing from Houston,
although comms are online.
We have no changes
in navigation,
life support, power.
What we have
is a dent in the hull
that presents no real dangers
to the ship or the crew.
Well, it's really too early--
I see no reason at this point,
to depart from the mission
or the flight path.
We knew that
impacts were possible.
Unlikely, but possible.
We don't even know
where it came from.
The ship is telling us
nothing happened.
That's because the impact
represents no real danger.
What if the whole system
is compromised?
Nash, you just told me,
the ship's given us
no evidence of that.
What?
The system has no evidence
of a whopping dent, either.
Cap...
Won't you join me, gentlemen?
Take it easy, okay?
You know, it occurs to me that
there might be
another possibility.
What if
the structural stresses
on the ship aren't balanced,
and they're creating...
fatigue and buckling?
There's no way the design team
overlooked
something like that.
Design team.
You mean Zoe Morgan?
I mean that the design team
worked for decades.
They would not have overlooked
a structural weakness.
NASA lost
a $125-million Mars orbiter
because they failed to convert
metric to inches correctly,
you remember that?
Okay, John, just say
for a second, I'm right.
It is structural stress.
What are the ongoing risks?
It is possible that
the dent is enough
to relieve the stress.
Or it could be just
the beginning,
and the ship
can continue to buckle
until we reach Jupiter orbit
and we attempt the slingshot,
I mean, at which point
we get explosive decompression
and blasted into
deep space without suits!
Ah.
Would that explain everything
that we've seen so far?
I mean, I know you think
Zoe walks on water,
but would that explain it?
- Maybe.
-Good! Work on that.
Until we get confirmation
of any additional risks
or receive word from Ground,
the mission continues
as planned.
We are still
in the game, gentlemen.
Let's try to keep
our heads on our shoulders.
Dismissed!
Let me get you a drink,
I'll tell you about it.
Hi.
Goddamnit, come on!
Hey. Wake up.
How are you feeling?
- How's your head?
- It's okay.
Any word from Mission Control?
No. Still nothing.
Listen...
I don't like this situation.
We need to say
if the ship is beat up.
But I think hurling ourselves
into deep space
at 33,000 miles per hour
on a defective ship
is a very bad idea.
We can't reach Titan
without the slingshot.
Forget Titan!
We abort the mission.
That's the second time
it's happened.
Fucking second time
Diagnostics show
no sign of any power failure.
That's just great!
There is a discrepancy between
what the ship is telling us,
and what we are seeing
with our own eyes.
You don't see anything
that I don't see.
I understand.
Nash! John!
I need you in the galley.
Have a seat, gentlemen.
So, Nash, let's um...
Let's walk through
your suggestion back there.
Suppose we decide to abort,
make a U-turn
and head back to Earth.
You were listening
to our conversation.
Let's say three days later,
we finally hear
from Mission Control.
They blame the breakdown
in communication
on solar weather.
Furthermore, they tell us that
there is absolutely nothing
wrong with the ship.
Oops!
Now, we have to explain
to the world
that we shit the bed.
And we're on our way home.
- They can relaunch.
- On whose dime? Yours?
Look.
In 90 days,
we are going to be facing
one of the most
difficult moments
of the entire mission.
The gravity assist will be
our ultimate do-or-die moment.
We need to work as a team.
Are we in agreement with that?
Yeah. 100%.
Nash?
- Mmm-hmm.
- Good.
We are wasting resources, gentlemen.
It's time we hit the pad.
Listen, um...
Oh, my God,
you don't need to say it.
No, no, no.
We both know
what's at stake here.
You're up for Titan.
Nothing can get
in the way of that.
I'm on the Odyssey team
and my work comes first.
- So...
- Okay.
Yeah, and if we see
each other at work,
we're colleagues
and nothing more.
- Of course.
- Yeah.
Nothing more.
I think this was
such a bad idea.
For all kinds of reasons.
Yeah, it was a bad idea.
Well executed though,
wasn't it?
Well, yeah.
90-day hibernation cycle, right?
What?
Set yours for 89
days and 12 hours.
I have a plan.
When we reach Jupiter orbit,
we perform the slingshot...
in the opposite direction.
Towards Earth.
Look at it. I did the math.
Also, given the damage
to the hull,
I'm not comfortable
firing the thrusters.
Hey! Gravity assist alone will
still get us back to Earth
a hell of a lot faster.
- It's insane.
- It's a plan!
John! I can't do it by myself.
You heard
what the captain said.
We need to work as a team.
We both know that's bullshit!
He's gonna get us all killed!
You're losing your grip.
I'm only talking
about 12 hours.
No, you're not.
You're talking about a mutiny.
What?
You ever hear of
Tor Ice Station?
I can't get this story
out of my head.
It's a scientific facility
in Antarctica.
So, 12-person teams
would work for half a year
in complete isolation,
no way in or out.
Three months
into an assignment,
the scientists
at Tor discovered
a crack along
the Arctic ice shelf
that was making its way
towards the station.
They knew that
if they didn't leave,
they were all gonna die.
Well, the man in charge,
a Navy commander,
he had a different opinion.
Despite the threat,
he held the scientists
at gunpoint,
threatened to shoot anyone
who tries to leave.
When they finally recovered
the bodies from
the frozen sea,
there were only 11 men.
The Commander was missing.
Autopsies revealed that
the scientists hadn't died
from drowning or hypothermia.
Gunshot wounds to the head.
It was eleven against one,
but the scientists
didn't even try
to overpower the commander,
they were too weak.
And it cost them their lives.
Do you want to live or die?
Huh?
'Cause it's really
that simple.
- You have to pick a side.
- Okay!
Okay.
If we wake up
and the ship shows no further
evidence of being damaged,
then we stick
to the original flight plan.
All right.
I'm in.
I'm gonna reset
your sleeping cycle right now.
I need your passcode.
[ON RADIO] ...as fear
spreads across the region.
As you know, there was
also an 8.4 earthquake
in New Mexico
earlier this month...
- Hey you, what're you making?
- Hi.
Hmm?
So we all know
that Titan's surface
is rich with hydrocarbon.
But here's the problem.
To make the C2H2 work as fuel,
we need oxygen,
which is in short supply.
But back in '28,
the Titan Saturn mission
identified potential oxygen
under the ice shell.
Folks, there is our oxygen.
To reach it, we need to drill
through the ice shell...
Yes. Yes, Gale?
What happens if there is no
oxygen under the lithosphere?
Or if it's so deep,
we can't reach it?
Well, I... I think
we'll know the answer to that.
You won't have enough fuel
for the journey home.
Um...
But our data...
Hello, John.
We're very confident that
there's a viable oxygen plant
on Titan to combine...
You are aboard
the spacecraft Odyssey-1,
bound for Titan.
We all understand
that these are the risks.
Please be careful.
The drugs used
to induce hibernation
can produce mild side-effects,
including confusion,
nausea,
dizziness and disorientation.
You are 1 year,
2 months, 29 days
and 12 hours
into your mission.
Hey, John.
I'm just getting
everything in order.
The math is in the computer.
We'll be ready to roll
within the hour.
Is hibernation
affecting you at all?
Are you kidding me?
I feel like hammered shit
every time we wake up.
I saw Zoe.
Right here, on this ship.
You know it wasn't her, right?
Unless she snuck on board
during the launch,
been hiding in the ship's
crawlspace this whole time!
That's not what I'm saying!
I'm saying
I'm not thinking straight.
I'm saying I'm seeing things
that aren't there.
I know you miss her.
It all seemed so real.
We're going home.
You're gonna see her again.
Right, bud?
I know. Yeah.
I get it.
Let's go home.
Nothing from Houston,
I take it?
No.
I've got something
to show you. Come here.
Come here.
Wow.
Only six people
have been this close
to the gas giant.
It's incredible.
Make it eight people now.
Nine,
if you count the captain.
Won't be long before
it's in our rear view,
so enjoy it while you can.
Yeah.
Actually, I want to talk
to you about that, Nash.
I don't think we should go
behind the captain's back.
John, we went over this.
Despite the hull event,
guidance, artificial gravity,
accelerometers,
all turning up clean?
The ship's diagnostics
isn't working.
Well, I don't know.
That's like saying
I lost my keys
because sneaky,
invisible gremlins took them.
What?
- What?
- I...
I can't find any evidence
of the gremlins.
It just proves
how sneaky they are.
There's no way to disprove
your theory, it doesn't work.
Fuck you.
Fuck you!
I have a doctorate
in astrophysics from Caltech!
-"Sneaky gremlins"?
- Doesn't matter.
- Are you fucking kidding me?
- You know what I'm saying!
There's nothing wrong
with the ship.
I ran through this
a thousand different ways!
Can't find anything
wrong with the ship.
The only option is
to abort the mission!
That's gonna be a challenge,
since we're all
on the same spacecraft.
Oh, I'm sorry, was I not
invited to this party?
Nash.
I want you to go
check the rations.
Against the ship's inventory.
See how much
we've consumed so far.
No, no.
I'm not leaving this room.
You know, for a second there,
it almost sounded like
you were refusing an order.
Were you?
Refusing an order?
Let me ask you something,
John.
Sure.
Are we friends?
Yes.
I'd like to think
we're friends.
Absolutely.
Aw, that's great!
I got a friend out here.
Join me for a drink,
all right?
Sit down.
Let's enjoy
this together, huh?
Look at that.
Breathtaking.
Slainte.
- You all right?
- No!
- What's that?
- Moonshine.
My own recipe.
What's the secret ingredient?
Windex?
How'd you know?
Listen,
if any of us
find conclusive evidence
that there's a major problem
on board Odyssey,
I'll cancel the mission,
you know that.
- Don't you?
- Yeah. I do.
My greater concern right now
is the growing conflict
between me and...
Puss in Boots out there.
You need to stay
out of it, John.
If you pick a side, it will
only unbalance the situation.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, it does.
- Makes sense.
- Good.
Right.
You know, the drugs they use
to induce hibernation
are extremely potent
and the side effects
can affect people
in all kinds of ways.
Some show strong
physical symptoms.
For other people,
it's more mental.
Loss of awareness, focus,
memory decrements,
paranoia.
Sound like anyone you know?
- Yeah.
- Mmm-hmm.
Okay.
So what do you propose we do?
I'll recommend that
Nash reduce his dose.
Okay.
I'll also adjust
his work schedule,
so he has a lot less downtime
for his mind to wander.
Great.
Right now, I want all
our focus on the slingshot.
Oh, I'm just a soul
whose intentions are good
Oh Lord, please don't
let me be misund--
What's going on?
John.
He can't perform
the slingshot on his own.
As long as we
stick together...
- Nash, just take it easy.
- What? You're with him?
I see no evidence
of any further issues.
I see no further evidence
that we're not fucked!
We're not fucked.
There's no compelling reason
to abort.
There's no threat
to our survival.
He told you to say that.
There's no threat
to the mission.
He told you to say that!
I'm not going
to abort, Nash.
I won't participate in this!
I won't!
Odyssey is broken!
Everything around us
is screaming,
"Turn the fuck around!",
and you're about to blast us
even further into space!
John.
Is it possible for us
to perform
the slingshot without Nash?
Yes, we can.
- The math is in the computer.
- You heard that, Nash?
The math's in the computer.
And rest assured,
when we reestablish
communications with Houston,
I'm giving them a full report
on your insubordination.
Now clear out!
- He's sick.
- I know, John.
I'm good.
Enjoy your meal.
Don't forget to hydrate.
See you on the bridge, John.
John? It's time
we prepared for the slingshot.
John.
You don't have to do this.
I'm begging you. It's suicide.
John! This is it!
Captain, I'll be right there.
No, John...
John, John, John...
You're sending us all to die!
Please, John! Please!
John!
You're sending us all to die!
Do you know why
moths fly into the light?
Yeah. It has to do
with navigation, doesn't it?
They fly relative
to a light source.
Usually the moon.
You know,
there's another theory.
A little different.
So, when a moth is in danger,
the best escape-route
tends to be towards the light.
And usually that's upwards.
And it makes sense, right?
I mean,
what's the alternative?
Down towards darkness?
So...
Flying into the light
is a survival instinct.
But on the other hand,
moths also live
in dark cupboards,
and they eat cardigans, so...
I just love how much
you know about moths.
We only get one shot at this.
Entering Jupiter's orbit
in 30 seconds.
Standby with the thrusters.
Copy.
Thrusters at 0%.
Hit the mark,
then cut the thrusters
at the precise moment,
and we'll be on track.
And if you miss...
It's been nice
knowing you, gentlemen.
Jesus Christ...
John, you're up.
Yes, sir.
In ten, nine...
John, you got it? Six...
Damn it!
Come on, come on.
Five. You got it?
-I got it.
- Three.
Two, one...
- John!
-Thruster 1.
Thruster 2.
Third thruster.
All thrusters
at full capacity.
Hit it!
We're gonna do this!
Warning! System overload.
Jesus Christ! Now?
Negative.
That's a negative, John. Hold!
We're all gonna die,
we're all gonna die,
we're all gonna die!
Now?
Warning!
Hold! Hold!
Hold!
Now!
Thrusters winding down.
Steady...
Thrusters at 10%.
Thrusters at zero.
What's our trajectory?
On course.
On course!
We did it!
Outstanding!
All right!
Slingshot
maneuver accomplished.
Listen, gentlemen,
we are on our way to Titan!
Rest in peace.
Okay.
John!
Holy shit!
Is anyone using
the UHF/VHF channel right now?
Not me, Johnny.
I'd like you
to hear something.
You must have
hit the button
on one of the other radios.
Or you were hearing an echo.
If there was an echo,
what was it bouncing off of?
These radios have
a 70-mile range,
so it's gotta bounce off
something very big
or very close.
Well,
that's simple enough to check.
Radar doesn't show anything
for a thousand miles.
You hit the wrong button
or you dozed off.
I didn't doze off.
So it's just another
one of your fantasies.
You know, for a guy who's
afraid of his own shadow,
you don't seem very concerned.
I gotta say
I'm with Nash on this, John.
Maybe you are
a little bit fuzzy.
Fuzzy?
- I'm telling you what I heard.
-Okay.
It's high time we made
preparations for hibernation.
Move the fuck out.
You need something?
I'm good.
What you waiting for?
Answer it.
Hello?
Hey, John. It's Sam Napier.
Yes, sir?
Can you, um,
come down to my office?
I have some good news.
Okay, thank you very much.
Hey!
- Hey.
- Where've you been?
I've been trying
to call you all day.
Well...
You...
You do know. Right?
Yes, I know. Congratulations.
Zoe, what's going on?
We had this agreement
when we started it,
that our work comes first.
So what's changed?
I love you.
Okay, thank you.
I'm flattered.
Oh, my God.
- Don't fucking do that.
- What do you want me to say?
Well, don't you feel anything?
Yes, I feel something.
What-- Then what do you feel?
John, tell me.
- I...
- John! Tell me!
I feel like
this is bigger than us.
I really didn't
want it to be you.
What?
I'm sorry.
How could you say that?
You of all people! You know
how important this is to me!
How could you say that to me?
I didn't want it to be you.
Yes...
I don't think that there's
anything left to say then.
John!
Oh, god, Zoe...
You have reached five miles.
Congratulations.
Oh, Zoe!
It's just in your head.
John.
- You all right?
- Yeah.
I was running.
Nash found something
in the reactor room.
He's gonna need
your assistance right away.
Yeah.
Are you sure you're all right?
- Nothing you need to tell me?
- I'm fine.
Listen, if you're struggling,
you can talk--
I wanna say I don't feel well!
I don't feel well!
The fucking hibernation
is torture!
I can manage it.
I'm all right. I'm fine.
Okay.
She's not here, you know.
- What?
- Zoe.
She is not here on this ship.
I know that.
Mmm-hmm.
What's going on?
Reactor output's
starting to escalate.
I mean, it's minor, but...
if it gets worse, it could be
a problem, you know?
Does it have anything
to do with the damaged hull?
Difficult to say.
But if the reactor
goes offline,
we'll be down to solar
and batteries,
and that's not
nearly enough juice
to keep Odyssey spaceworthy.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
What do you need me to do?
I'm feeling a little punchy.
You know.
Just I'm having a hard time.
I can't show this
to the captain
unless the numbers add up.
Check my numbers. Please.
- Yeah.
- Thank you.
I'll look into
these over, Nash?
I need you
to do something for me.
Yeah.
How did the captain
know about Zoe?
Well, everybody knew.
Your relationship
was no secret.
That's not what I mean.
How did the captain
know that...
I'd seen her on the ship?
I told you.
- You told him?
- No.
I told you.
- You told him.
- I don't think I did.
You don't think you did?
I...
Did you--
Maybe I told him.
I don't know.
I can't remember.
I don't even know
who I am anymore.
I can't remember
my parents' names.
I don't even remember
what they look like.
It's just the side-effects
from the drugs.
Okay?
Side-effects?
That's all it is?
Yes.
You've been
forgetting things, too.
You couldn't remember
Zoe's last name.
What else have you forgotten?
Have you forgotten...
how her skin feels like?
How she smells?
Maybe she's forgotten you.
Do you really think she hasn't
met someone by now?
Be careful, Nash.
Zoe moved on,
she met a new man.
A man who appreciates her,
who is committed to her
without hesitation,
a man who is everything
you're not!
Stop it!
We can still go back
if we turn the ship
around right now.
- Stop it!
- I want to go home!
We can't turn around!
Be quiet!
We're not going home!
Stop talking! Stop it!
- You can--
- Stop!
We're not going home!
Be quiet!
We just need
to show the captain
the reactor's numbers.
There aren't any numbers.
'Cause you've been putting
data into a dead screen.
Nash, John!
I need you on the bridge.
Tor Ice Station.
Remember what I told you.
Have a seat, both of you.
Nash, what are your findings
on the reactor?
Still checking the numbers.
Something is...
definitely not right.
Output's dipped as low as 20%.
I ran some of my own tests
from up here,
and the data showed
similar findings. John?
Any thoughts?
I haven't had a chance to
review the findings yet, sir.
- Gut feelings then?
- Uh... Gut feeling?
Um...
I don't have a gut feeling.
I'll have to sit down
with Nash
and look through his numbers.
Take a look at the screens.
You can see that
Nash is correct.
We're experiencing
a 20% dip in power.
That's a major concern.
If we can't solve the issue,
we may not make it to Titan.
And that's not the full story.
Apparently someone issued
a low-level command
to the reactor subsystem
which is causing
these power abnormalities.
Guess whose passcode was used?
It wasn't mine.
It was your passcode, John.
- Captain, that's impossible.
-But...
I don't think you had anything
to do with it.
You did give Nash
your passcode
when he reprogrammed your
sleep chamber, did you not?
- Cap...
-No.
I don't know his passcode.
I barely remember my own name!
I'm innocent.
This amounts to...
sabotage, and it puts me...
in a very difficult position.
I don't think weapons
are allowed on board, sir.
During the Civil War,
enlisted men
were given rifles,
while officers
were given pistols.
It wasn't for combat.
It was to put down
insurrectionists.
Cap...
I'm disappointed.
But I'm not surprised.
What are you gonna do to me?
To be decided.
Right now,
I'm ordering the both of you
into hibernation
while I weigh my options.
I'd rather be shot
than go into hibernation!
That can be arranged.
I'm kidding. That's a joke.
Hello, John.
In a few seconds you will
be entering deep hibernation.
Relax your body and begin
to focus on your breathing.
You will be asleep in five...
Four...
Three...
Two...
One.
- Hey.
- Hi.
How are you?
I'm okay. How are you?
Um...
So, I don't know if you heard,
but I'll be leaving town soon.
Yeah.
Heard about that.
Was it "Titan"...?
Titan. Yeah.
A billion and a half miles.
No big deal.
-How are you feeling?
- Excited.
A little impatient.
I'm ready to go.
I'm really glad
that you came by.
'Cause I wanted
to say goodbye.
And I'm really sorry about
the way things ended before.
I, um...
I said a lot of things
that I regret.
It's all right.
There are also things
that I regret not saying.
- Um...
- Listen...
I'm really proud of you.
And I'm happy that
you came into my life.
So am I.
You were always very clear
with me from the beginning
that this is who you are.
And nothing or nobody was
gonna get in the way of that.
It's that steadfastness
and that...
determination that
attracted me
to you in the first place.
Oh, I was wondering
what it was.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Having said all that though,
there is something that
I kinda want to know.
Did you love me?
I felt a lot of things.
Like what?
You know...
- No.
- Zoe.
No, I don't know.
- I don't know what that means.
- I'm leaving.
You know, it's okay.
John.
I have to go.
Hello, John.
You are emerging
from deep hibernation.
You are aboard the spacecraft
Odyssey-1, bound for Titan.
Please be careful.
The drugs used
to induce hibernation
can produce mild side-effects,
including confusion,
nausea,
dizziness and disorientation.
You're sending us all to die!
I'm begging you.
You don't have to do this.
I'm begging you, John.
You're sending us all
to our deaths!
I'm begging you. It's suicide.
You're sending us all to die!
I wanna go home!
Let me
ask you something, John.
Are we friends?
I'd like to think
we're friends.
Hello, John.
Captain.
Where's Nash?
Why do you ask that?
I... I saw you.
When I was going under,
I saw you attack him.
We struggled.
You attacked him.
He was becoming
more and more, uh...
Unstable.
I saw an opportunity
to subdue him. I took it.
That's not what I saw.
Where's Nash?
I put him under
until we reach Titan orbit.
Oh, you think
we're gonna make it still?
To Titan? Absolutely.
I have no doubt.
John, we've just had
a few setbacks, that's all.
You, like Nash,
are having adverse reactions
to the hibernation drugs.
Just so long as you remain
more of an asset
than a liability,
I see no reason
for tension between us.
Okay, I want you
to put your gun away.
I would do that. I would.
If I were certain that your
condition wouldn't degrade.
I'm fine.
You are?
Maybe I've had
one hallucination or two.
One or two.
You know, an unstable mind
doesn't always know
it's unstable, John.
Should we talk about
something else?
Like Tor Ice Station,
for example?
You know,
that story that Nash told you.
What about it?
He needs to get
his facts right.
That final year at Tor...
it was a brutal winter.
One of the coldest on record.
And when the crack
was discovered,
only the commander
was thinking clearly.
He told his team
they should make the trek
to the nearest base,
even though
the subzero temperatures
meant that
survival was unlikely.
Problem was, the scientists
were too afraid to leave.
They were weak, John.
If they had gone together,
they might have had a chance.
Strength in numbers.
Instead, the commander
went alone. Froze to death.
His body was found
50 miles from the base.
But the fact remains,
the commander
acted courageously.
What about the scientists?
- What about all the autopsies?
- Hmm.
Revealed gunshot wounds
to the head, I know.
Self-inflicted.
- Self-inflicted.
Sometimes,
it's not about the results.
A man is judged
by his actions.
Okay,
here's the situation, John.
The mission does not change.
Has not changed.
Will not change.
I need to know.
Can you work with me,
or would you prefer
to hibernate, too?
- I can work with you.
- Good.
The X-band communications.
They're down again.
So I'd like you to rerun
the diagnostics on that.
Sure.
Getting back in communication
with Houston should be
our major priority right now.
- Absolutely.
- Good.
I'm gonna get
something to eat.
Uh, alert me
to any developments, please.
Oh, and John...
I'm really glad that
we can trust each other again.
I'm just a soul
whose intentions are good
Oh, Lord...
John?
Anything on X-band?
No. Nothing.
Not the answer
I wanted to hear.
Guess we'll just have
to keep trying.
You should eat something.
You look a little pale.
I'm not hungry.
You heard something,
didn't you?
No.
Then why is your hand shaking?
It's not shaking.
She really did
a number on you, didn't she?
What?
Zoe.
I don't want to talk about Zoe
with you, Cap, thanks.
Why not?
Because it's none of
your fucking business.
There's something
you need to know.
I hate to be the one
to break it to you, but...
I think it's best
you know the truth.
Your relationship with Zoe
wasn't real.
Zoe was a plant.
What?
The selection committee
had concerns
- about your emotional mettle.
- No.
They wanted to make sure
you had what it takes.
That's why they used Zoe.
You know what, Captain?
The drugs are starting
to affect you.
Let's talk about that.
'Cause I don't think
you're fit to be in charge.
Think about it. Just...
You're deluded!
Okay, that time you ran
into Zoe at the coffee bar.
Do you think
she was there by accident?
- You're lost!
- Is that what you think?
Hi.
And when she sat next to you
at the Titan lecture.
She just happened
to be looking for a seat
the moment Gordon got up!
- What about that?
- How do you know all this?
When you ran into her
outside your apartment.
Why was she jogging
in your neighborhood?
You guys live
on opposite sides of town.
Don't you think
that's suspicious, John?
How do you know this?
How do you know all this?
How do you think I know?
I was on
the selection committee, John.
John!
Oh, yeah?
Let me introduce you
to Zoe Morgan.
Zoe told us everything.
She was just doing her job.
She did it admirably.
You're so full of shit.
You're full of shit.
You and Nash are full of shit.
Because you're both jealous
of what I have.
Where you going?
- Fix the radios!
- That's the head.
Yeah...
That's the galley.
Storage is that way.
I know that.
Excuse me. Is this seat taken?
- It's John, right?
- Yes.
- Zoe.
- Morgan.
No.
May I?
I wouldn't trade this time
for the world.
And everyday I wake up and
I'm excited and I'm inspired.
No.
It's the most important
job you'll ever have.
And my sister jokes that
it's my longest relationship.
Okay.
Anyway, what about you?
If you get chosen,
won't you miss your life here?
No.
I've always been a loner.
Only child syndrome.
It's such a coincidence
we ran into each other.
You're not a big fan
of furniture, I take it?
Um, no, I'm preparing
for life in space.
Oh.
That was a joke.
Mmm-hmm. I couldn't tell.
Yeah, I could tell that.
Who is this man in the photo?
He's my father.
He spent the last three years
of his life in Antarctica.
That picture was taken
just before he died.
John.
Hello?
Are you there?
- Hello?
- John.
- Yes?
- Can you hear me?
Yes! This is John
aboard Odyssey-1.
- Who's this?
- What is your status?
Hello?
Repeat.
What is your status? Over.
We're okay, Houston! Uh...
We're okay. We've lost comms.
We've had some
structural damage.
Nash...
is in hibernation.
Because, uh...
He had, uh...
Problems.
John? Please repeat!
We are not okay.
Who is in hibernation?
John.
Hello?
John,
report to the bridge.
Report to the bridge now.
I'm going to
ask you a question,
and I want you
to answer me very carefully.
Yes, sir.
What were you just doing?
- Checking the equipment.
- Specifically.
Checking
the terrestrial radios.
And what were the results?
I know this sounds crazy,
but I think that
I made contact.
Contact with whom?
- Houston.
- Houston!
Houston.
Even though they are six
hundred million miles away?
Six hundred million miles!
You want someone
to be there that bad?
Sir, I'm not crazy.
I heard it.
The same way you heard Zoe's
voice in here a while ago?
And saw her in your quarters?
You only hear these signals
on the handheld radios.
It's never on X-band,
which gets recorded
by the computer,
which we could
play back to verify.
Yeah, I agree
that's improbable, sir,
but if you were there,
you would've heard it too.
I was there.
I kept the intercom open
while you were
in equipment storage.
So you heard it?
No.
I heard you.
Having a conversation with
empty static. Take a look.
Go and have a seat, John.
Take a seat, John.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, but look,
we have been in space
for nearly two years.
We've been subjected to very
powerful drugs to sedate us.
The situation's
been exacerbated
by damage incurred
to the hull,
the source of which
we still don't know,
as well as communication
issues with Ground.
Now I ask you,
which is more likely,
that you picked up
a walkie-talkie
and had a live conversation
with someone back on Earth,
or your imagination is playing
a cruel trick on you?
You wanna hear it?
I can play it back for you.
I recorded the conversation.
Yes! This is John
aboard Odyssey-1.
No, please don't.
Please don't.
- Okay.
- Please don't.
I don't wanna see that.
I'll get you through this.
But you gotta trust me.
We're still friends,
aren't we?
Absolutely.
Attaboy.
It just so happens
that we have a...
sleep cycle scheduled...
No, I don't wanna
hibernate like Nash.
Relax.
Just relax. There you go.
It'll be all right.
Besides,
look how far you've come.
This is the most
important thing
we'll ever do
in our entire lives.
Failure is not an option.
The mission comes first.
Always.
You do understand that,
don't you, John?
John?
John, what are you doing?
You have to go under first.
You can't be awake
while I'm in stasis,
not in your current condition.
I will not allow it.
I want to see Nash.
I told you. He's asleep.
Wake him up.
- I want to know he's okay.
- I can't do that.
His sleep cycle just started.
I just reset it.
I will bring you to him.
I wanna see him here.
Not gonna happen.
Captain, I want to see Nash!
John, you know
I could order the computer
to open the door
any time I want to.
I'm asking you to do it
of your own free will.
Just wanna see that he's okay,
bring him here.
John...
Do it! Now!
Okay, take me to Nash.
Yes, sir.
I ought to shoot you
right now.
On your feet.
Time for bed.
- Captain...
- Come on, open it up.
Where is Nash?
You still don't get it, John?
You'll never find him!
Not like this.
Not in your current condition!
John!
Dreaming about space, John?
I am just a soul
whose intentions are good.
It's clearer than ice!
Are we still friends, John?
I wanna go home.
You need
a friend up here, you know!
It's just in your head.
Johnny Boy!
Nash?
You're endangering
the mission.
- You're endangering...
- Why are you doing this...
You're endangering the...
...to me?
You're endanger...
You!
It's... it's you
who endangered the mission.
Tried to kill us!
The mission...
You're endangering...
Computer,
enable voice command.
Voice command enabled.
Where is Nash?
Nash is on the bridge.
No...
What?
Computer,
where is Captain Franks?
Captain Franks
is on the bridge.
Computer, where is Nash?
Nash is on the bridge.
- Is Nash alive?
- Yes.
Nash is alive.
Is the whole crew alive?
Yes, the crew is alive.
What...
What is the crew manifest?
Crew Manifest, Odyssey-1.
Crew one, name...
Captain John Franks Nash.
Houston,
this is Odyssey-1.
John speaking. Happy holidays
to everyone down there.
I'm only talking
about 12 hours.
No you're not.
You're talking about a mutiny.
I'm not here either, you know.
I know that.
Am I alone?
Yes.
Anyway, what about you?
If you are chosen,
won't you miss your life here?
Friends and family?
No.
I've always been a loner.
I really didn't
want it to be you.
This is bigger than us.
Don't you feel anything?
The drugs
used to induce hibernation
can produce
mild side-effects...
Captain John Franks Nash.
...including...
Houston! We're okay.
...confusion,
nausea, dizziness
- and disorientation.
-Be quiet! Stop it!
Stop it! Stop!
I'm gonna turn in.
Over and out, Houston.
You have
been gone a long time, John.
What is the thing you miss
most about home?
Hello? Hello? This is John,
aboard Odyssey-1. I need help.
Houston!
Or whoever's out there,
I don't know
if you can hear this.
Please send help!
[ON RADIO] John?
- Zoe?
- John, it's me.
Hi!
John!
It can't be you.
This is not you.
It is me!
Listen, are you okay?
No!
I think I'm going crazy.
I need help.
- John!
- Um...
I think that
I killed Captain Franks.
But I don't know.
I'm feeling
a little bit confused.
And I think that
Captain Franks killed Nash.
But I don't know
if that's true either.
John, listen.
I'm here with Sam Napier,
and he asked me
to talk to you.
The hibernation drugs,
the dosage was too strong.
That's why you're confused.
Okay. I thought
that might be it.
Zoe.
How many people
are on Odyssey-1?
Only you.
That is impossible.
Did you see any other crew
quarters besides your own?
Any other
hibernation chambers?
Odyssey can only support
a crew of one.
How am I talking to you
without delay?
- John, I'm gonna put Sam on.
- No, don't!
No!
You tell me.
Okay.
You never left.
You never launched.
What?
You were in hibernation
before launch.
ATS built a training facility
in New Mexico.
A perfect replica,
reactor and everything.
You're 1,000 feet underground.
They needed to do a dry run
without you knowing.
John, I didn't know
about it either.
I would never have
let this happen.
You have to believe me.
I saw Jupiter.
I saw Jupiter!
And there was the slingshot...
It...
It was all simulated.
It felt real.
It had to feel real.
That's the whole point.
The communications system was
linked back to the surface.
We're directly above you.
- You come and get me.
- We're trying.
As you know, there was
also an 8.4 earthquake
in New Mexico
earlier this month...
Part of
the access tunnel collapsed.
It severed
the communication cables.
We had to hope that
you would try the radios.
For a while,
we thought you were dead.
Because of the collapse,
there was no way
to reduce your drug intake.
Each hibernation raised
the toxicity levels
in your blood.
They're drilling
a rescue hole,
but if there's
another collapse...
We... We need to get you
out of there.
Where are you now?
In equipment, um, storage.
All you have to do is
open the airlock and walk out.
Head upwards,
towards the light.
Okay.
You'll hit the rescue tunnel
soon enough.
That's it?
That's it.
I'm right here, John.
I'll be waiting for you.
I love you.
John, there isn't
much time, hurry!
John!
John, don't go out there.
You're not real.
"Real"?
I am standing
right in front of you.
You're not real.
You wanna tell me that
the voices you think
you're hearing on the radio
are real, and I'm not?
You're presenting with
irrationality and paranoia.
You are reacting to the drugs.
You can't hurt me.
You can't do anything.
I'm not the one
you should be worried about!
We are in deep space.
I don't believe you.
Six hundred million miles
from Earth,
and you're about
to open the airlock!
Zoe told me everything.
No. All you've done is
fabricate a scenario
where everything makes sense.
Where you and Zoe ride off
into the sunset together.
You can't prove it!
You're having
imaginary conversations.
It'd be impossible for anyone
to prove anything
to you right now.
John, stop.
Wait!
John!
Warning!
Spacesuit not detected.
The moment
you open that door,
you'll be sucked out
into space!
You'll lose consciousness
within 15 seconds!
Last thing you'll feel
will be the saliva
boiling off your tongue.
Is that how you want
to be remembered?
Failing your country?
Dying in infamy
like your father?
- Who is this man in the photo?
- He is my father.
He was a commander
in the Navy.
He died when I was 11.
It's not too late.
My whole life,
I thought I was a loner.
But I was just alone.
John, you can still
complete the mission.
- I trust Zoe.
-Trust yourself, John.
I'll stay with you forever.
And I'll never leave.
I know that
she's waiting for me.
Trust yourself, John.
I'm gonna go home.
John.
Warning! Override.
John? Don't do this!
John!
Outer door will open in 15...
Don't do this!
Fourteen...
Thirteen...
Twelve...
Eleven...
Ten...
- Zoe!
- Nine...
Can you hear me?
Eight...
Seven...
- Zoe!
- Six...
Yes, John, I'm here!
- Five...
-John?
Four...
Three...
I want you to know
that I love you.
Two...
- I love you so much...
- One.
Can you hear us, John?
I'm here, John!
Go to the light!
Zoe!
I'm here!
Hey! I'm here!
We're on our way, John!
Just hold out!
Do you know why
moths fly into the light?
When a moth is in danger,
the best escape-route
tends to be towards the light.
I mean,
what's the alternative?
Down towards darkness?